[MUSIC]
Let's start by taking a look at
the various Excel chart and options, and
learning how to navigate a large
variety of features available to us.
We're going to start with
the provided chart and
practice making changes to it using
the basic Excel charting functions.
Let's start by clicking on the chart.
As you can see, the data that the chart
is derived from becomes highlighted.
We can also see that the chart
tools ribbon has been activated.
Let's take a closer look
at the chart tools ribbon.
The first tab in the ribbon
is the design tab.
This tab contains a variety of options for
changing the way your chart looks.
The charts layout section allows you to
quickly change the layout of the chart
using pre-defined templates.
The chart style section provides different
formatting options such as colors and
styles.
The data section allows us to manipulate
the data set that the chart is based on.
And the location section provides options
for moving the chart to another sheet.
Together, the features in this tab
provide you with a variety of options to
accommodate the story that you
are trying to tell with your chart.
Next, on the chart tools ribbon,
we find the format tab.
This tab provides you with a variety of
options for formatting the chart elements.
On this tab,
we find the current selection section
that displays which chart element
has been selected for formatting.
You can use the drop down menu to select
the element that you want to edit.
For example,
if we select legend, we can see that
the legend has been selected in the chart.
The insert shapes section
provides you with the option of
inserting an object into the worksheet.
Such objects can be especially useful
when you're trying to call out a specific
data point in your chart.
Let's try inserting an arrow
to point at the bar for
New York since it's the city
with the largest population.
The shape style section allows you to
format the chart element that is currently
selected.
You can select the quick layout option.
Adjust the fill.
Or outline color of the element.
Change the weight or add a shadow effect,
using the shape styles section.
The other sections in the format tab apply
differently to different chart elements.
For example, WordArt applies to the text
on the graph, while the arrange section
and size elements apply to
any shapes within the chart.
Now that we have a better understanding
of the various charting options and
functions available in Excel.
Let's discuss the different
elements that make up a chart.
There are essentially seven basic
elements in an Excel chart.
The first is the chart area which
encompasses all of the other elements.
When the chart area is selected,
we can easily move the chart by
clicking on it and dragging it to
a new position within the worksheet.
We can also resize the chart by placing
the cursor on one of the edges where you
see three little dots.
And once we see the arrows appear,
we can click and
drag to resize the chart
to the desired size.
The next element is the plot area
which contains the data points.
It is possible to move and resize
the plot area within the chart area,
the same way we just did for
the chart area.
We move the plot area by clicking on it,
and
dragging it to the new desired position.
However, note that it is not possible
to place the plot area outside of
the chart area.
We can also change the size of this
element by selecting one of the points on
the borders, And dragging it to resize it.
The third element is the set of
data points of the data series that
is plotted in the chart.
In this example,
each of the bars is a data series.
When you first click on a bar, all of
the series in that group are selected.
This allows you to make
changes to all of the points.
We do this by navigating to the format
tab, and selecting the shape fill option.
We're going to change the color to gray,
so
let's pick that option
from the drop-down menu.
Now, in order to highlight the fact that
New York has the largest population,
we may want to make that data
point a different color.
In order to select a single data point,
we're going to click on the bar a second
time, allowing us to makes
changes to a single object.
So let's click on the bar
representing the New York population.
Note how the other bars
are no longer selected.
We're going to change the color to red to
have it stand out from the other bars.
So let's go back to the format tab,
click on the shape fill option, and
select red from the drop down.
Notice how the data point for
New York stands out from the rest?
The fourth element of an Excel chart
is the vertical and horizontal axis,
along which data is plotted.
The axes have a wide array of
formatting options available.
For example, you can adjust the text and
number formatting,
their positioning within the chart.
The location of the tick marks,
the spacing between grid lines, start,
or endpoints, and many, many more.
The fifth element is the legend.
The legend is an essential
element in a chart,
since it provides an overview of
the data series that are being plotted.
The Excel formatting options allow us to
adjust the legend sizing, positioning, and
whether or
not it can overlap with your chart.
For now,
we'll remove the legend since there's only
one data series in this chart.
So, let's go ahead and click on the legend
and delete it using the delete key.
Note that we can always bring the legend
back later by selecting the legend under
the charts elements options.
The sixth element of
the chart is the title.
This encompasses both the chart
title as well as the axis titles.
Titles can be adjusted using text
formatting, sizing and positioning tools.
The seventh element is the data labels
that help identify the details for
each of your data points.
These also have their
own formatting options.
In this graph, only the top three
cities by population have data labels.
We just covered the seven
main chart elements, but
there are a few others
available to format your chart.
There are also multiple ways to reach
the various formatting options for
these elements.
We use the options in the format
tab in this section, but
you can also simply select
the element you want to edit, and
right click in order to bring up a menu
that provides various formatting options.
This quick overview of how to navigate
through the charting options will be
helpful as we look at some scenarios and
see what Excel can really do.
Throughout this course,
we are helping you develop building blocks
that can be combined in many different
ways to deliver solutions way beyond
what we may have demonstrated here.
Visualization is very much an art.
So feel free to experiment and explore.
[MUSIC]